2. Membership

2.1. The list of members for the Society is to remain with the Executive and Arc to have sole access. The membership list is not to be given or sold to any other person, committee or organisation. Breaches of this guideline will cause a no confidence motion to be moved against the Executive and the matter will be forwarded to University Security and the Police.
     2.1.1. The Executive shall at its discretion allow CSE, other Arc affiliated societies or clubs, or its official sponsors to send relevant notices via E-Mail to its membership through the Society Secretary, President or a Producer without the disclosure of the list constituents to the third party
2.2. The Society shall be recognised as a Regular Club under the official Arc definition
2.3. Membership to the Society is subject to the affiliation requirements of the Arc, completing a membership form and the payment of the membership fee, as determined by the Executive.
     2.3.1. Membership cannot be granted between bump-out and the beginning of the Executive Term with the exception of Clause 2.5.1
2.4. Members shall be classified as:
     2.4.1. Full Members: any member who is a current UNSW student
            2.4.1.1. CSE Members: any full member who is currently enrolled in an undergraduate program with an available major sequence in an area administered by CSE, and who has declared above relevant major sequence as their program major; or who is currently enrolled in a postgraduate program administered by CSE (research or coursework); or has graduated from such an undergraduate or postgraduate program; or is enrolled in Flexible First Year Engineering and is enrolled in a First Year Computing Course.
     2.4.2. Associate Members: any member who is not a current UNSW student.
2.5. The duration of a person's membership shall be:
     2.5.1. Persons elected to the Executive as defined in Clause 3.4 at an AGM or EGM are classified as Members from the close of that AGM or EGM until the end of the Executive Term as defined in Clause 3.10
     2.5.2. Subject to Clause 2.3.1, for all other persons from the date Clause 2.3 is met until the close of the Society’s next AGM.
2.6. The Society shall not discriminate on the basis of gender, marital status, race, age, sexual preference or religion, in any of its activities or procedures, including the granting of Society Membership.
2.7. Notwithstanding Clause 2.5, the Society Executive shall proactively seek to maintain 85% CSE Students as defined in Clause 2.4.1 in the composition of its Membership
2.8. Notwithstanding Clause 2.5, any Member of the Society may have their membership terminated if:
     2.8.1. They die
     2.8.2. A motion is carried by the Executive
     2.8.3. An Impeachment Motion is passed:
            2.8.3.1. An Impeachment Proceeding is instigated when the Executive is petitioned by at least ten (10) CSE Members in writing
            2.8.3.2. An EGM is called and the Proceeding included as a Motion, in accordance with the procedure outlined in Section 7.3
            2.8.3.3. The Member concerned is notified in writing at least five (5) academic days prior to the EGM by the Executive
            2.8.3.4. The Member is given five (5) minutes to speak against the motion at the EGM
            2.8.3.5. The Motion is carried by a two-third (2/3) majority at the EGM
2.9. Any Member of the Society who believes they have been wrongly expelled may appeal to Arc, who will arrive at the final resolution of the matter
