6. Specific Duties of Roles

6.1. The Executive Body
     6.1.1. President
            i.     To fulfil the role of Chairperson as defined by Clause 6.4.1 for all meetings defined by Clauses 7.2 through to 7.8, and 7.10
            ii.    To contribute to the management of the Society through the Executive by representing the interests of Members and the Society's goals and vision as a whole
            iii.   To at all times to consult the Executive prior to making decisions that will impact the Society, Revue or Membership as a whole, or that are outside the direct responsibility of the President
            iv.    To oversee and coordinate the activities and administration of the Society
            v.     To acquaint each Executive officer with their duties and responsibilities, and maintain personal contact with them.
            vi.    To ensure that each member of the Executive, Orgs performs their duties as laid down in this constitution
            vii.   To ensure that there are regular meetings of the Executive and Orgs as appropriate
            viii.  To pro-actively ensure the smooth running of all the Society by liaising with Directors and Producers
            ix.    To ensure that all other tasks necessary for the running of the society and its activities are performed properly, either by performing them one's self or by delegating them.
            x.     To, in consultation with the rest of the Executive and through discussion with Orgs, develop and pursue long term goals for the society
            xi.    To have a thorough knowledge of this constitution and ensure that it is adhered to.
            xii.   To act as official spokesperson for the Society
            xiii.  To liaise with CSE and the Student Development Unit in order to represent the Society's interests to them and to resolve any problems that arise in their dealings with the Society
            xiv.   To liaise with Arc, other University bodies and campus community groups as required in the running of the Society
            xv.    To, in conjunction with the Secretary, establish and maintain relationships with other campus community groups, University bodies and off campus organisations, with the aim of promoting the Society and its activities.
            xvi.   To, through liaison with the Secretary, identify, solicit and invite interest in the membership for potential future Executive members and invite them to participate in Advisory roles in appropriate meetings and or society activities in order to develop experience and skills
            xvii.  To present a report on the Society's activities at all AGM and EGMs
            xviii. To, at the completion of one's term of office, acquaint the members of the incoming Executive with their duties and responsibilities
     6.1.2. Secretary
            i.     To contribute to the management of the Society through the Executive by representing the administrative interests of the Revue and ensuring the Membership is kept informed
            ii.    To at all times to consult the Executive prior to making decisions that will impact the Society, Revue or Membership as a whole, or that are outside the direct responsibility of the Secretary
            iii.   To organise all Meetings defined by Clauses 7.2 through to 7.5, and 7.7 through to 7.9, collect items of business for discussion, and prepare and distribute agendas for these meetings, in consultation with the President and provide this material to the President prior to the meeting
            iv.    To be responsible for receiving all correspondence (conventional and e-mail) on behalf of the Society
            v.     To send all official correspondence (conventional and e-mail) on behalf of the Society including that send to members
            vi.    To fulfil the duties of Minute Taker as defined in Clause 6.4.2 for the purpose of the meetings defined in Clauses 7.2 through to 7.5, and 7.7 through to 7.9
            vii.   To coordinate the activities of the Reflection Panel defined by Clause 7.10
            viii.  To maintain a database of members and their details
            ix.    To be responsible for the signing up of new members including the collection of Membership forms and dues as defined by Clause 2.3
            x.     To keep all documents belonging to the Society in order
            xi.    To maintain an archive of publicity material and documents of historical interest
            xii.   To retain a selection of publicity material for the current year's performance for marketing purposes in the subsequent year
            xiii.  To, in conjunction with the President, establish and maintain relationships with other campus community groups, University bodies and off campus organisations, with the aim of promoting the Society and its activities
            xiv.   To ensure that the Society remains affiliated with Arc by seeing that an Application for affiliation form and other appropriate paperwork is submitted when required
            xv.    To ensure that Arc is notified of any changes to the Executive.
     6.1.3. Treasurer
            i.     To fulfil the role of Attender as defined by Clause 6.4.3 at the Meetings defined by clauses 7.2 through to 7.8, and 7.10
            ii.    To contribute to the management of the Society through the Executive by representing the financial interests of the Revue. To at all times to consult the Executive prior to making decisions that will impact the Society, Revue or Membership as a whole, or that are outside the direct responsibility of the Treasurer.
            iv.    To fulfil the role of Chairperson as defined by Clause 6.4.1 at the Budget meeting defined by Clause 7.9.
            v.     To keep and maintain the Society's financial records, of which these must be open to inspection by Arc at any time.
            vi.    To ensure records are kept both up-to-date and in good order.
            vii.   To hold cheque books, cash boxes, etc.
            viii.  To keep the Executive and Orgs informed of its financial position.
            ix.    To present a report on the Society's finances at all Annual and Extraordinary General Meetings.
            x.     To carry out financial transactions after due process in accordance with the procedures outlined in Section 8 as approved by a Producer or as instructed by the Executive.
            xi.    To organise petty cash floats when required at the request of Committee Heads and as approved by Producers.
            xii.   To reconcile all accounts in accordance with the minimum requirements defined in Section 8.
            xiii.  To ensure all money received by the Society is banked promptly.
            xiv.   To ensure that no Society money is spent without due process as outlined in Section 8.
            xv.    To ensure that Society monies are not misused at any time.
            xvi.   To ensure the Society does not take on a debt it cannot repay.
            xvii.  To ensure the Society maintains a realistic cash position and cash flow.
            xviii. To ensure the Society maintains a positive net accrual position at all times.
            xix.   To pro-actively ensure the competent financial management of Society activities by Producer.
            xx.    To be a source of information for Producers on role of Treasurer.
            xxi.   To organise any change of signatories required when there is a change in the membership of the Executive.
            xxii.  To ensure all financial records are handed over to the incoming Treasurer at the end of term.
     6.1.4. Arc Delegate
            i.     To fulfil the role of Attender as defined by Clause 6.4.3 at the Meetings defined by Clauses 7.2 through to 7.8, and 7.10.
            ii.    To contribute to the management of the Society through the Executive by representing Arc and as the representative of the Membership to Arc.
            iii.   To at all times to consult the Executive prior to making decisions that will impact the Society, Revue or Membership as a whole, or that are outside the direct responsibility of the Arc Delegate.
            iv.    To be familiar with the services offered by Arc, to make other executive members aware of these opportunities and ensure that the Society takes full advantage of these.
            v.     To represent the Society at, or when unable to attend, ensure that the Society is represented at, all Arc Clubs general meetings
            vi.    To apply for Arc subsidies and grants, as appropriate, for all Society events, and to ensure all necessary criteria are met by the Society in applying for these
            vii.   To carry out other duties associated with those services provided or facilitated by Arc, including (but not limited to): booking indoor space for the Society activities through Venues and Events, booking outdoor space for Society activities through University Security, booking stalls for Orientation Week and other University open days through Arc
            viii.  To liaise with the different departments of Arc in order to represent the Society's interests to them and to ensure the Society takes full advantage of the opportunities offered by them
            ix.    To be familiar with the services offered by Arc, to make other Executive members aware of these opportunities and ensure that the Society takes full advantage of them
            x.     To carry out other duties associated with those services provided or facilitated by Arc
     6.1.5. Producers
            i.     To fulfil the role of Attender as defined by Clause 6.4.3 at the Meetings defined by Clauses 7.2 through to 7.10
            ii.    To contribute to the management of the Society through the Executive by representing the administrative interests of the Revue
            iii.   To at all times to consult the Executive prior to making decisions that will impact the Society, Revue or Membership as a whole, or that are outside the direct responsibility of the Producer
            iv.    To provide and oversee the processes required to successfully and responsibly administer, fund and deliver the Revue performance
            v.     To liaise with the Secretary to organise appropriate meetings, communications, and to establish and oversee the Membership
            vi.    To liaise with the Treasurer to prepare appropriate budgets, funding projections, financial tracking procedures and other finance related matters to ensure the Society and Revue performance are appropriately and responsibly financed, and that these are enforced
            vii.   To authorise all financial transactions
            viii.  To liaise with Directors to understand the creative vision and requirements for the Revue Production and formulate appropriate schedules, deadlines, policies and procedures to see that these can be implemented
            ix.    To liaise with the Technical Director to ensure that all participants recognise their authority during the Revue performance
            x.     Oversee the establishment of a realistic schedule to ensure the delivery of the Revue Production
            xi.    Oversee the formation and smooth running of Orgs by soliciting, finalising and then monitoring Committee Heads
            xii.   Coordinate the delivery of the Revue production by overseeing communication between Committees and other relevant people
            xiii.  To oversee the preparation of the marketing strategy and materials; identify, approach and close sponsorship arrangements with corporate sponsors for the Revue production; and ensure that all obligations to these sponsors are met, to provide funding for the Revue performance
            xiv.   To be the facilitator of applications for Arc Campus Community grants and to ensure all grant requirements are met
            xv.    Oversee and ensure the delivery, and then distribution, of promotional material and procedures
            xvi.   Approve and then oversee the delivery of any required resources or equipment 
            xvii.  Organise and oversee the distribution and collection of ticketing, and ensure that the Theatre is adequately filled each night in order to meet financial obligations
            xviii. Organise the delivery of Front of House services in the Theatre during the Revue performance
            xix.   Oversee the delivery of wellbeing services for cast and crew during the Revue performance
            xx.    To plan and coordinate, in consultation with Orgs, the Society's social activities either directly or through the establishment of a Social Committee
            xxi.   To assist with and monitor the physical, mental and emotional wellbeing of all Participants during the Revue performance
            xxii.  To ensure that all Participants who represent the Society to the public do so in an appropriate, responsible and mature manner, and maintain the good reputation of the Society on campus
     6.1.6. Directors
            i.     To fulfil the role of Attender as defined by Clause 6.4.3 at the Meetings defined by Clauses 7.2 through to 7.10
            ii.    To contribute to the management of the Society through the Executive by representing the creative interests of the Revue
            iii.   To at all times to consult the Executive prior to making decisions that will impact the Society, Revue or Membership as a whole, or that are outside the direct responsibility of the Director
            iv.    To provide and oversee the creative vision of the Revue production
            v.     To liaise with Producers determine the appropriate scheduling and deadlines, and to develop appropriate policies and procedures to ensure the creative vision can be responsibly implemented
            vi.    To liaise with the Treasurer in collaboration with the Producers to ensure that the creative vision can be responsibly financed
            vii.   To liaise with the Technical Director to ensure that the creative vision is technically viable and resourced
            viii.  To liaise with Committee Heads to facilitate the delivery of the Revue Production
            ix.    To collaborate with the Technical Director and Design personnel to oversee set and prop design and construction
            x.     To collaborate with the Technical Director to organise the Stage Manager, stage crew and to respect the authority of the Technical Director during rehearsal and show runs
            xi.    To collaborate with key creative personnel such as choreographers, vocal directors, band director, etc. to implement and deliver the creative vision of the Revue Production
            xii.   To organise and facilitate script writing workshops and performance rehearsals
            xiii.  To encourage Members to participate in Society social, team building and motivational events
            xiv.   To assist with and monitor the physical, mental and emotional wellbeing of all Members during the Revue performance
     6.1.7. The Technical Director
            i.     To fulfil the role of Attender as defined by Clause 6.4.3 at the Meetings defined by Clauses 7.2 through to 7.10
            ii.    To contribute to the management of the Society through the Executive by representing the technical interests of the Revue
            iii.   To at all times to consult the Executive prior to making decisions that will impact the Society, Revue or Membership as a whole, or that are outside the direct responsibility of the Technical Director
            iv.    To oversee the Technical crew to ensure the competent technical management of the Society's production, in particular in the areas of lighting, sound, set construction and stage management
            v.     To be a source of information for lighting, sound, set and stage crew on their roles
            vi.    To liaise with Design personnel and Directors to oversee competent set design and construction for the production
            vii.   To collaborate with the Directors to organise and establish the Stage Manager, stage crew and technical resources, and to respect the Directors' creative control and direction.
            viii.  To liaise with the NUTS Technical Director and inform the Executive of any matters involving the shared Barn space and any commitments or matters for discussion raised by NUTS that will affect the Society
            ix.    To attend and oversee the bump in and bump out for the production, and be present at the theatre on all show nights
            x.     To provide technical assistance to all technical staff prior, during and following show nights
            xi.    To maintain an inventory of all set pieces and tools belonging to, or used by, the Society
            xii.   To ensure Society, hired, shared and borrowed property is respected and any rules set down by the hirer are adhered to
            xiii.  To oversee and ensure all shared, hired or borrowed property is returned in good condition
            xiv.   To ensure that Producers are immediately notified of any damage to shared, hired or borrowed equipment
            xv.    To ensure that Producers are immediately notified of any potential safety risks 
            xvi.   To ensure that the excess building materials resulting from the Production are recycled or disposed of as appropriate by the technical crew and to, where necessary, arrange for the disposal of waste building materials
            xvii.  To organise workshops and other training opportunities for members in lighting, sound, stage management, etc.
            xviii. To generate interest, amongst members and prospective members, in all areas of technical production.
            xix.   To ensure the Society's production has a committed and suitably experienced crew
            xx.    To source crew members, as required, to work on the Society production. This may be done by, in conjunction with the secretary, soliciting interest from amongst members and maintaining a database of members who wish to take on technical roles
            xxi.   To ensure that new and inexperienced crew are given the opportunity to participate to build their skills and ensure that the Society has a sustainable pool of experienced crew members for future productions
6.2. The Organisational Standing Committee
     6.2.1. Orgs Participants
            i.     To attend all Orgs Meetings as defined in Clause 7.5 during the term of each Participant's responsibility to Orgs
            ii.    To contribute to the organisation of the Revue Performance through participation in Orgs by representing the Committee or Executive in the capacity of HOC or Executive Member, and contributing to policy formation and decision making iii. To brief Orgs on the activities of the Committee or Executive
            iv.    To liaise with other Orgs Participants through Orgs to coordinate activities to deliver the Revue Performance
            v.     To contribute to decision making at Orgs Meetings by
            vi.    To at all times consult Orgs prior to making decisions that will impact other Committees, or that are outside the Committee Member's direct responsibility
            vii.   To consult the Executive prior to making decisions that will impact the Society, Revue or Membership as a whole, or that are outside the direct responsibility of the Orgs
6.3. Committees
     6.3.1. Head of Committee (HOC)
            i.     To lead, oversee and provide direction for the Committee Participants
            ii.    To assist the Executive with the forming of the Committee by soliciting appropriate Participants to participate in the activities of the Committee
            iii.   To encourage participation in the Committee of all Participants who express an interest in being involved, and to the best extent possible facilitate their ability to do so
            iv.    To represent their Committee on Orgs by attending all Orgs Meetings as defined in Clause 7.5 from two weeks prior to the formation of the Committee through until the Orgs debrief, or as required by the Executive
            v.     To attend and act as Chairperson for all Committee Meetings as defined in Clause 7.6
            vi.    To consult Orgs prior to making decisions that will impact the Society, Revue or Membership as a whole, or that are outside the direct responsibility of the Committee
            vii.   To liaise with the Executive in Charge to coordinate the Committee's activities and respect their authority as the representative of the Society Executive
            viii.  To be proactive in sourcing information when required, and to actively seek out instructions and offer solutions to Orgs, the Executive in Charge or the Executive as appropriate
            ix.    To provide or source appropriate training, resources, facilities or other materials to allow the Committee to complete the tasks assigned to it by Orgs or the Executive
            x.     To ensure Committee Participants are informed of Society social events and encourage them to participate in these
            xi.    To monitor the physical, mental and emotional wellbeing of the Committee's Participants
     6.3.2. Committee Secretary (CS)
            i.     To attend and act as Minute Taker for all Committee Meetings as defined in Clause 7.6
            ii.    To liaise with the Committee Head to organise Committee Meetings, room bookings and other appropriate facilities
            iii.   To hold and maintain on behalf of the Committee copies of all minutes, paperwork, files and other data
            iv.    To forward to the Society Executive copies of all Minutes for distribution to Orgs as required or when instructed to do so
            v.     To maintain the Committee's mailing list/s and the Society Membership database, and keep the Society Secretary informed of participation in the Committee
     6.3.3. Committee Financial Officer (CFO)
            i.     To keep the Committee Head briefed of the current financial status of the Committee at all times
            ii.    To attend all Committee Meetings as defined in Clause 7.6
            iii.   To assist with the preparation of the Budget and attend the Orgs Budget Meeting as defined in Clause 7.9
            iv.    To approve all financial transactions for the Committee through the processes outlined in Clauses 8.3 and 8.4
            v.     To liaise with the Treasurer to inform and proactively monitor the Committee's finances
            vi.    To collect and forward all receipts to the Treasurer for authorised spending and keep appropriate financial records for the Committee
     6.3.4. Executive in Charge
            i.     To monitor all activities for the Committee, provide guidance and assist with the coordination of activities with other Committees
            ii.    To respect the authority and autonomy of the Committee Head in decision making at Committee level
            iii.   To attend all Committee Meetings as defined in Clause 7.6 for the Committee
            iv.    To liaise with the Committee Head to provide funding, personnel and other resources as required to assist with the Committee's activities
            v.     To provide decisions for the Committee on behalf of the Executive when required due to time constraints
6.4. Meeting Roles
     6.4.1. Chairperson
            i.     Fulfil all the duties of an Attender as defined in Clause 6.4.3
            ii.    If the person fulfilling this role is unable to attend the relevant meeting they must organise another member to fulfil this role for the meeting prior to the notification of the meeting
            iii.   Prepare the Meeting agenda and record and approve items of business to be discussed as submitted by attendees prior to the meeting
            iv.    Approve the attendance of members in Advisory roles prior to the commencement of the meeting
            v.     Formally Open and Close the Meeting
            vi.    Presenting items for discussion or debate vii. Facilitating discussion and debate
            viii.  Facilitating Motions
            ix.    Announce the result of votes conducted by secret ballot
     6.4.2. Minute Taker
            i.     Fulfil all the duties of an Attender as defined in Clause 6.4.3
            ii.    If the person fulfilling this role is unable to attend the relevant meeting they must organise another member to fulfil this role for the meeting prior to the meeting
            iii.   Keep minutes for the duration of the meeting, including:
            iv.    Record apologies, attendees and absences for the meeting
            v.     Summarise the key points of discussion or debate during the meeting
            vi.    Record significant decisions or points to be followed up vii. Record the results of Motions
            viii.  Read the minutes of the previous meeting, and submit them for approval, when instructed to do so by the Chairperson
            ix.    Distribute copies of the Minutes to relevant participants within five (5) business days following the close of the meeting
     6.4.3. Attenders
            i.     Must attend all meetings in accordance with the rules governing attendance of such meetings
            ii.    Must register items of business for discussion at the meeting with the Chairperson prior to the commencement of the meeting
            iii.   Must advise the Chairperson of any Advisory participants they wish to invite to attend the meeting
            iv.    May participate in discussion and debate at the Meeting under the facilitation of the Chairperson
            v.     Must participate in motions by casting a vote when instructed to do so, and in the method advised, by the Chairperson
     6.4.4. Advisors
            i.     May attend meetings only with the invitation of a Attender and with the approval of the Chairperson
            ii.    May address the meeting in their advisory capacity when requested to do so by the Chairperson
            iii.   May participate in general discussion and debate at the Meeting if invited to do so by, and under the facilitation of, the Chairperson
            iv.    May not participate in motions
     6.4.5. Ballot Officers
            i.     Fulfil all the duties of an Attender as defined in Clause 6.4.3
            ii.    If the person fulfilling this role is unable to attend the relevant meeting they must organise another member to fulfil this role for the meeting prior to the notification of the meeting, subject to Clauses governing the appointment of Ballot Officers in Section 7
            iii.   Follow the procedures for counting ballots in the secret ballot in private
            iv.    Where multiple Ballot Officers are appointed, each must independently count (or recount) the ballots, until all Ballot Officers agree upon the result of the secret ballot
            v.     Notify the Chairperson of the result of the secret ballot
            vi.    Conduct a recount of the secret ballot at the direction of the Chairperson
